>> You know, it's been eight years since Apple
introduced the first version of Mac OS X server.
And throughout that time, we've tried to keep the
same philosophy as to how we've designed the product.
Built on Mac OS X, we've taken a
scalable, industrial strength foundation
of Unix, Open Source, and Open Standards.
We've integrated that with easy to use server tools,
and on top of that we've layered
innovative services and applications.
So today we're going to dive in to what's new with
Snow Leopard server, and it is our best release yet.
>> [ Audience member: ] Whew!
[ Laughter ]
>> So first we've started off by improving a lot
of the administration tools in Mac OS X server,
really making it easier to manage and deploy.
And I'm just going to give you a sample of
a few of the refinements we've made here.
We've made installation and set up a lot more streamlined.
You no longer have to declare ahead of time the
size and purpose of your server installation.
[ Applause ]
We've improved server migration, so now the server can
migrate data from existing hardware onto a new server.
We've improved the Airport configuration, so Snow Leopard
server can manage your Airport base station including things
like port mapping, DHP configuration,
and DNS for both the server and Airport;
so all of your services are accessible
from anywhere on the internet.
[ Applause ]
We've added certificate management into server preferences,
so now integrated SSL server management is
available throughout the whole server product.
And we have improved server administration
for large sites too.
Server admin can now manage groups of servers based on
any organization you'd like, and we have the ability
to manage dynamic groups of servers for
things updating criteria like server load.
So these are just a few examples of some of
the refinements we've made to server admin
to make the server easier to manage and deploy.
As you've heard today, there are a lot of great new
technologies in Snow Leopard, and we've taken advantage
of these in Snow Leopard server to deliver a fully 64-bit
server with much greater performance than its predecessor.
And so to tell you more details about this, I'd like
to invite to the stage Senior Engineering Manager
from the Mac OS X server group, [inaudible name].
>> So we have some great performance numbers to share
with you today, but first let's talk about 64-bit
and multicross capability, and at the end
we're going to look at specific numbers.
Start with 64-bit...
as you saw in earlier sessions, we
now have this great 64-bit foundation,
and what we did on the server side is we made all of our
services 64-bit also, so they can take full advantage
of that 64-bit OS and the latest hardware underneath.
So let's take a look at what that means.
From the server performance prospective
there are four things we care about 64-bit.
The first one is address space - the large address
space that services keep more stuff in the memory,
so that you don't have to access expensive disk I/O.
For example, they submitted a contour is now 64-bit, and
you can now cache many, many more items in the memory
and that really improves the overall
performance of the file system,
especially when lots of files are
being accessed simultaneously.
And the same benefit goes for the
database as well, with large address space.
Next, Simon mentioned in a previous session the
system calls are efficient on 64-bit systems.d
So services such as a web server that makes a
lot of calls, gets some boost from that as well.
Third computation - 32-bit software gets accessed
through 4 general purpose registers,
while 64-bit gets 16, 4 times as many.
And that means any computationally intensive
software such as HPC applications running on Xgrid,
or encryption algorithms gets huge
performance by moving to 64-bit.
And lastly, 64-bit kernel enables us to increase the OS
resource indication significantly, and here's an example.
So this is the maximum number of
processes that you can have on the system.
With the 32-bit kernel the maximum was
2,500, and this was the scalability bottleneck
for the webserver, the FAT server that we have.
With 64-bit kernel, that number the limit is
dynamic, so as you have more memory that increases
and that made the scalability of
our web server significantly better.
So those are key benefits of 64-bit for the server
platform, and now let's talk about multicore.
A couple of years ago we started to work with core OS engineers
to make sure every subcomponent of the OS is optimized
for multicore, and here are some of the changes...
that went into Snow Leopard.
Lots of fundamental enhancements at the really low level.
So we did things like including Scheduler, and
make sure it can take advantage of multiple cores,
then that worked great, but then the
memory subsystem couldn't keep up with it,
so we had to include the virtual memory, done, good job.
And now the networking was a bottleneck,
so we have to multithread IP route lock,
improve send file command, and so on and on and on.
It was a lot of work, but at the end it all came
together and effort really, really paid off.
And here to showcase some data...
this is a benchmark and actually taking the CPU
Ultilization data while the test is running.
Leopard server saturated three cores,
but couldn't take the rest of the cores,
so 62 % of the CPU was idle, being wasted.
With a smaller process server running on the same
hardware, it took advantage of every single core
and also all the subsystem of the OS, was just humming
along, and of course as a result the performance data was
over twice as high compared to Leopard Server.
So with this new OS we have this great
ability to really take advantage of the latest
and fastest hardware that's fully loaded.
This is an example configuration, this is what we use
when we measure for our file services performance.
So this is really great news for the server product.
And one last thing I want to mention is
that we achieved this high end scalability
without sacrificing the low end performance.
Mac Mini with 2 gigabytes of memory, is an excellent
small business server and Snow Leopard server runs great
on those mini configurations, but the same
OS simply scales up and takes full advantage
of the extra hardware capabilities
when it's running on Xserve.
So that I think is a great accomplishment,
and we are really happy and proud of that.
So with the 64-bit server, and multicore optimized
OS, let's look at the performance numbers.
Our web server performance increased
by 80 %, 1.8X of Leopard server.
Not bad. And the NFS number doubled, and this is
using the industry standard spec as a sfs benchmark.
And lastly this is even better, 2.3 times Leopard server.
So the performance is looking pretty good, it's
just like getting 1 Xserve for free when you upgrade
to Snow Leopard, so we're really happy about that.
Alright, so that's performance and next
let's talk about communication services.
Snow Leopard server includes a set of robust, open
standards based services including mail, chat, calendar,
and now contacts - the Address Book server, and we're
going to talk about each one of these starting with mail.
In Snow Leopard server we have not just a
mail server, but the complete mail solution.
We of course have POP, iMAP, and SMTP, but we
also have virus and spam filtering services, mailing
list server, remote access, web access,
and [Inaudible] solution all built into the product.
And in the Snow Leopard server we
have a brand new mail server engine.
We picked up this excellent open
source project called DOVEcot.
[ Applause ]
And DOVEcot was already very high performance and
also highly reliable and also very secure,
but we made additional improvements
on top of it to make it even better.
For example, we optimized the heck out of it, to make
sure we can take full advantage of that 64-bit OS.stdylh
We also added some core to it that
better integrates Apple technologies as well.
So let's take a look at the performance.
So this is Sun's
messaging server, running on a SPARC Enterprise box,
using industry standard spec mail, this scored 17,000.
Snow Leopard Server on Xserve scored 28,000 almost 29.
So we are quite happy about this.
[ Applause ]
And by the way the Snow Leopard server is
over 10 times improvement from Leopard server.
Okay, on the reliability front...
the new mail server has a self healing capability where
it automatically detects corruptions and repair it.
So for example, if the power goes out and when the mail
server starts back up, one of the indices are corrupted,
mail server automatically finds
it, fixes it, and just moves along.
So you no longer have to do any
manual maintenance with the database.
And if you're looking for...
that single point of failure, the active crosslink is
built right into the design of the new mail server as well.
You can start with two nodes and you can grow to end.
And here's some of the examples of upper integration.
We of course have ease of set up and management,
we even configure the client software for you
so it will automatically point to the mail
server or the parameters are set right.
And the mail cluster sits on top of Xsan and we've
made some changes to the Xsan set up assistant,
so all you have to do is simply select mail crosslink
from the popup menu, and the set up assistant
for Xsan automatically configures all the file
system Panthers optimized for mail clustering.
Of course the server is also integrated into Mac OS X
security and authenticaion infrastructure,
Open Directory, Kerberos, service access control and so on.
The mail server's also communicating with big servers,
so we the mailing list archive is always
synchronized between the two services.
We also modified a mail server speed, seamlessly
integrated with the new mobile access server,
so the mobile clients can have easy
access to the mail and we're going to talk
about this functionality a little bit more later.
And lastly we added support for server side mail rules,
which means you can filter mail messages before
they get to your client's mail application.
So for example, you can filter all the mail in this traffic
carefully monitoring, so only the important business
and personal message get to your
iPhone, which has limited screen.
So that's the mail server.
We have a brand new engine, high performance, high
reliability, and also great Apple integration.
Next iChat.
Didn't make too many changes this time around,
but there are a few I want to highlight.
First we analyzed and addressed,
all the, scalability bottlenecks.
So while we don't have any detailed data just yet,
looks like we more than doubled the scalability
of iChat server and Snow Leopard server.
On the functional feature front, we also added support
for all the buddy lists as Craig mentioned earlier,
and that function now can be turned on or off on
a per group basis to give you more flexibility.
And on the security front, we also added support for
active directories native digest authentication,
as well as support for kerberos multirealm, which
means iChat server now works much better
in the active directory, open directory combo environment.
And lastly, our server as always is open standards based,
which means it's fully compatible with all the XMPP
and Jabber compliant servers out there, such as
Google Talk, and you can easily fit in with them.
And that's Chat Server, and what I'm going to do now
is invite Christopher [ Inaudible ]  to the stage so he can talk
about the rest of the communication
services and also collaboration services.
>> So as you know, Snow Leopard has been all about refining
and operating the foundations of the operating system,
and we did our fair share of that with the
X server as you saw in Kazu's presentation.
We also decided to add a few new features and services,
and I'm going to go through some of
those some starting with iCal server.
So for those of you unfamiliar with iCall server, it's
a fully featured calendaring system that allows you
to schedule meetings with people in your organization, deal
with availability, manage availability, things like that.
It also has support for delegation, so you can have
people who are delegated to manually manage a room
or maybe have an administrative
assistant manage the calendars for others.
And like all services in Mac OS X server,
it's designed for high performance and lastly
but certainly not leastly important, is
it's completely standards based unlike many
of the calendaring systems we've all been using
for the last few years, and learning to love some.
The standard we are using is called
CalDAV, and it's now an IETF RFC.
The standard that we're actually heavily
involved in, and we're helping to...
have one of the vendors to ship the first commercial
CalDAV implementation, we find things and we actually try
to push changes back up into the standard
that will help everybody, benefit everybody.
There have been a few attempts to come up
with a calendaring standard in the past.
None of them have really gotten any traction,
and with CalDAV we're finally starting
to see a traction, some traction, lots of traction in fact.
So these are companies that have already deployed,
or are in the middle of deploying calendar servers,
clients or other calendaring related applications.
So I think it's really clear that,
as IMAP, POP, and SMTP are to email,
CalDAV is definitely going to be the calendaring.
So CalDAV is the standard for calendaring,
it's great to have a standard finally.
So that's kind of an overview of iCal server,
let me get into some of the things that are new.
Starting with just some protocol
enhancements, so the first one is something
that we noticed as we were developing our server.
It's called Implicit Scheduling.
The spec originally called for clients to understand
most of the logic when it came to managing, scheduling,
and shuffling events around between people.
And it turns out that that actually can be
very fragile, so we helped to implement,
helped to define a new standard called implicit
scheduling where all that logic really just moves
into the server, and the server manages all of that.
And there are two major benefits to that.
First, is that it's much easier to write clients, which
is a good thing for anybody who wants to write a client.
And number 2 of course is that because the server's managing
all of the data and you don't have to worry about a client
that had a problem, the data integrity is greatly increased.
We've also added push notification,
so clients are immediately updated
or notified when there's an update to an event
And we've added attendee look ups for CalDAV, and what
I mean by that is in Leopard look ups, the attendees,
were done through open directory or LDAP, and that
turned out to be a problem when you wanted to do things
like provide remote access, because then you
had to poke a hole in your firewall for LDAP.
You really don't want to do that, so now everything
runs through CalDAV, there's no need for...
no need for poking holes in your firewall,
and it's much easier to write clients as well
because clients only need to know about CalDAV.
So this is a good new feature.
And lastly we've added the ability for
attendees in an event to reply to an event
with the textual message to the organizer in the event.
So moving onto more end user facing features, Snow Leopard
now contains a full blown web based calendar client
The web client is basically a complete CalDAV client,
it's a very rich web application like you'd expect,
you can drag and drop events, have multiple calendars.
You can invite people, view they're free/busy,
all the things you would expect to
be able to do in something like iCal.
So what this means is that now everybody in your
organization, regardless of whether or not they have iCal
or some other CalDAV client, has
access to their calendaring system.
So this is going to be great for cross platform.
Next we put a lot of work into enhancing our
interoperability with non CalDAV systems.
So most clients, most calendar clients
support a protocol called iMIP.
And iMIP is basically a way for invitations
to be sent and responded to over email.
In general fixed on by the clients, so it can be kind
of a problem if you're just going client to client.
So what we did is we embedded iMIP
directly into the CalDAV server.
So what that means is I can invite people from my
organization using CalDAV, or anybody else outside
of my organization, just using their email address,
and the server manages sending those invitations out,
accepting the responses, collating the data,
and making sure everything's all up to date.
So this works great with things
like Google Calendars, Outlook,
and Yahoo Calendar; any other calendar for that matter.
And lastly, I'm going to talk a little bit
about performance, so the team spent a lot
of time improving performance for Snow Leopard.
They did a lot of analysis, they wrote
benchmarks, they ran simulation after simulation...
and they are able to get the performance of
the server up dramatically - 7 to 10 times.
I guess that means 7 to 10 free Xserves for you people.
And so that's great, so simulations are
great but it's really important for us to...
it's really important for us to find a way to really
verify that this would actually work in the real world.
So we went and found a really large company that has
probably more meetings than most companies in this world,
and I'm happy to say that they've completely
deployed iCal server, and iCal as their sole...
calendaring system.
[ Applause ]
So that lets you know that iCal server
is ready for big companies like Apple.
So enough talking about features, I'm going to ask
Wilfredo Sanchez to come up and give you a demo of some
of the features that we've added for Snow Leopard.
[ Applause ]
>> Good afternoon.
I'm Wilfredo and I manage the iCal
server engineering team at Apple.
I'm just going to show you a couple of the
highlighted features that you'll see in Snow Leopard
and Snow Leopard server related to calendaring.
Just go over to the demo machine, OK.
So now let's, for the sake of example, let's say that
a university called Moeller University has decided
to deploy iCal server on their campus for use
by their faculty, staff, and their students.
And say, I'll start out here as a student...
and iCal here should look familiar
to those of you using Leopard.
By deploying iCal server, the university is basically
provided a standards based CalDAV service to all
of their users, and here I can store all of my meetings
rather than just on my machine on the CalDAV server,
which means that I can access it from any
machine that has access to net server.
And so you see here in blue I've got all my
course work, I've got some Phys Ed stuff,
sports that I'm doing in the morning, and then
some social things I'm doing in the afternoon.
Now that in and of itself is somewhat interesting,
but really where CalDAV comes into play is
when you can do some scheduling things
in it, interact with other people.
So I'm going to go ahead and create a
meeting here on my projects calendar,
because I want to meet with the professor about a project.
And let's just call that project "meeting".
And one thing is I need to find a room to book that in, so
I'm just going to go ahead and start typing building number,
and all the rooms in that building show up in a
list here, and they're all marked as available.
So you can see right here in this
view what's available to access,
so I'm just going to go ahead and
book something in this room.
And then I'm going to start inviting some folks, so
the professor that I want to meet with is named Arthur.
So I start to type his name and now
iCal is doing a query via HTTP protocol,
to the CalDAV server to find out what users are available.
Now in Leopard, this was actually done
via an open directory based lookup.
At this point the client no longer needs to bind
to open directory in order for this to work.
[ Applause ]
This lookup is happening directly to the calendar server,
and that means that there's no issues
between synchronizing data or...
basically this data's authoritative
from the calendar server.
And so I'm going to go ahead and invite
a couple other folks - Iris and Morgan...
and aside from doing lookups just on the directory
service, iCal also checks your address book.
So here I'm going to invite somebody names
Alyssa, and Alyssa does not have an account
on the calendaring system here,
because she's not a student at Moeller.
So I'm going to just enter her email address from
my address book in here, which iCal will do for me.
And so in Leopard you can really do this,
but what will happen now is the calendar
server will get this email address
and actually behind the scenes send an IMAP
message out to Alyssa that she can then process.
So I'm going to go ahead and send that out, that looks good.
I'm going to hide this, and switch over to Alyssa's case.
Now Alyssa uses Gmail to read her email, and as you
can see here she just got an email message inviting her
to a project meeting.
And you see there's an HTML formatted
message in here with the date of the event
and all the information that's relevant to it - in Google
and there are many other applications that do this sort
of thing, actually give you some affordance for
accepting the meeting right, and the email clients,
so I'm just going to go ahead and accept that.
And if I go over to my calendar you can
see that, in fact this meeting got in here.
Oh, wrong week.
That's so confusing.
Next again, alright there it is.
I guess I'd advanced too much in iCal.
OK, thanks.
And you can see that here, you know, there's the meeting
and you can see like all the relevant information about it.
So we'll go ahead and exit that.
Now let's say now I'm the professor that got
this email message, and I'm kind of out on the go
so I don't have a machine with iCal right in front of me.
So I'm going to just borrow somebody else's computer
and use a standard web browser on
their machine, happens to be Safari.
Let me actually get this link here...
and Moeller University has actually
put the calendar on their homepage,
so there's a couple of interesting things to note here.
One is that if you use Leopard, you know
that we had a web based calendar for groups
and now this is actually available to individual users.
Another thing is that this is no embeddable,
so you can take any website and actually,
like you could embed a You Tube video onto a website, you
can now embed the user web calendar which we inherited
from the wiki product, and embed that into
your homepage which is kind of spiffy.
And finally, kind of cool is that all of this is actually
a rich calendaring UI, so it's not just a read only view.
As you can see here, I've been invited to a couple
of things, I've got to test that, what I was doing.
And here's that project meeting that I was
invited to, and I can go ahead and accept
that here, and there it is on my calendar.
Similarly I can do things like create a new
meeting, just call that whatever, and I can,
just like I could in iCal actually
add some attendees in here.
So I'm going to go ahead and add Cyrus like I did before,
there he is doing attendee look
up just like he could on iCal.
And kind of cooler is you can actually see
that the free/busy information is displayed
up on here, just like you would on iCal.
So it' s full on, rich web calendar experience here.
And that's all I have to show for you.
If you have any more you want to see,
come by our talk tomorrow, and thanks.
[ Applause ]
>> Thanks Alfredo.
Alright, so that's iCal server.
Some protocol enhancements, we've greatly
improved the performance, a great web client.
I encourage all of you who are considering
calendaring systems to take a look at this.
It's ready for large organizations, and I think
it's going to work out great for all of you.
It's working out great for us at Apple even.
So next, I'm going to talk about a new
service called Address Book server.
So Address Book Server is a service, based
service, that allows people to take their contacts,
which they normally would have had in a local address
book, and store them up on a server and manage them just
as they would if they were local contacts.
The benefit here is that they can get to these contacts
from any various computers that they may be using.
So sticking to our theme of standards and
Mac OS X server, Address Book Server is based
on a new standard called CardDAV, and some of you
may have noted that CardDAV sounds an awful lot
like CalDAV, and there's a good reason for that.
The people who designed CalDAV or defined that standard,
also are the people who are defining the CardDAV standard.
And what they've done is actually taken kind of the
base levels of CalDAV, taken the calendar part out,
and put contacts in instead - in
this case using vCard as a format.
The benefits here are that the standard will
end up getting pushed through more quickly
because the base layers were already taken care of.
And it also makes it easy to write products that use both
CalDAV and CardDAV because the protocols are so similar.
And people and events go together very well,
so there are a lot of opportunities there.
So servers are only half the story,
need clients so I'm happy to say
that Snow Leopard Address Book has full support for CardDAV.
One thing you'll notice looking at this is that it
looks just the way Address Book has always looked,
which means that when somebody starts using CardDAV rather
than local contacts, there's nothing new for them to learn.
It operates exactly the same way as
Address Book has always operated.
Another...
since the contacts are stored on the server, you're probably
wondering well what happens if I can't get to the server?
Well Address Book has full offline support for contacts, so
if somebody can't get to their server or they're traveling,
they still have all of their contacts
listed, cached locally.
They're able to edit, delete, add new contacts,
treat them just the way they normally would.
When they get back on the network and connect to the
server, just automatically syncs up to the server
and the server's got the final
versions with no user interaction.
Additionally, because this is embedded inside
of Address Book, Address Book also has API's.
So applications like mail app,
iCal, and a lot of applications
that developers developed, take advantage of these APIs.
And if you take advantage of those APIs you
automatically get access to these CardDAV contacts
You don't have to do anything else.
Another feature we've added into Address Book
Server is support for a global Address Book.
So what that means is that CardDAV allows
people to manage their personal contacts,
once they configure the CardDAV account they also
get the ability to search over your corporate,
or your organizational LDAP or open directory contact store.
So gives them access to all of the people
in your organization at the same time.
So Address Book Server, brand new service in
Mac OS X server, we're very excited about it.
We're excited that there's a standard
that we could build this on top of,
and hopefully people will find it very useful.
So that's all I've got for our communications
section, so mail got a brand new engine, great engine.
Lots of new enhancements in iChat server, iCal servers
and performance enhancements, great web clients,
minimal operability enhancements, and
our new service Address Book Server.
So from here, I want to move onto collaboration.
So in Leopard we shipped a suite of web collaboration tools,
included things like wiki, group blogs, group mailing lists,
calendars, it contained a really great
WYSIWYG editing engine, and it made it very,
very easier for people to collaborate
with documents on the web.
And before I get into...
I want to talk a little bit about what happened at Apple.
So we obviously use our own software, and so as soon
as we had a product ready, the Leopard product ready,
we deployed a server for our own use inside the server
engineering organization, and it became the prime location
for all of our documents, our specifications,
our prototype documents,
our user interaction documents, and we used it very heavily.
Other people at Apple, other groups, started to
hear about this crazy wiki thing that we were using,
and asked if they could get their
projects put up under our server.
And so of course we said yes, the more people
the merrier, and I just checked the other day
and we have almost 500 projects
living on this server at Apple now.
So anyway, the point is that 500 different
groups are using this product at Apple.
It's become a critical part of the way they get
their work done, the way they document things,
the way they track things, and so we
were really excited to see that happen.
I anticipate that when we actually advertise to
people, it will be 5,000 wiki's within a year.
So anyway, moving on, new features.
So in Leopard server we made it pretty easy to create wikis.
In Snow Leopard server we're making it incredibly easy.
We've got a new web based assistant for setting
up a wiki, and it takes basically 3 clicks.
Give your wiki a name, choose a theme, decide
who you want to have access to it, you're done.
It literally takes 30 seconds.
Next, a feature called My Page, and
My Page does a few different things.
One of the most important things is it
provides what we call an updates page,
which gives you a way to manage the vast
amount of information that you have.
In an organization like Apple where we have 500 wikis,
it's very difficult to find information
and to monitor information.
And so the updates page gives you a way to decide which
people you'd like to follow, and once you've done that,
you basically get an event stream that shows you
all of the things that have happened across all
of the projects you care about - new pages that
have been added, pages that have been edited,
comments on pages, and things such as that.
In addition to that, that's still a lot of data and
so we came up with some ways to make it really easy
to triage data, there are ways to mark pages
as favorites, you can come back to them later,
quick ways to scroll through and mark things as read,
the ability to create smart filters so that you can track
in more minute detail things you really care about.
It's become actually pretty useful
to us as we built Snow Leopard,
because we were living on this before we
actually shipped as part of testing Snow Leopard.
So a couple of other features in My Page - it provides
some jumping off points to things like your web calendar,
your personal web calendar, your personal web mail, and
a long standing feature is that it also allows users
to change their open directory passwords through the web.
[ Applause ]
My Page, and again 500 wikis, it's a lot of data.
With Leopard we didn't have a way
to search cross multiple wikis
and that makes it very difficult to
find the information you're after.
With Snow Leopard, it's super simple, one query
goes across all the wikis you have access to,
and it makes it incredible easy to find that needle in
that haystack of data that you've got in your organization.
Next is Quick Look, which I think is my favorite feature.
Leopard server made it incredibly easy for people to upload
documents of any type into a wiki page, and that was great.
The problem was that if somebody wanted to view that
page, that document, they then had to download it
to their desktop system and then view it in the desktop.
That could be a problem because you may not have
the application required to view that document.
You may even be on a platform that doesn't even support
that application, so what we did is we took a look at...
took advantage of the same Quick Look technology that's
in Mac OS X Desktop, and moved it over to the server.
So what happens now is that if somebody uploads a document
of any type to the wiki, the next person who wants to come
and look at that document simply clicks on the Quick
Look icon, and they get a beautifully rendered version
of that document directly in the web browser.
And you're going to see a demo of
this, it's actually pretty amazing.
And a little more on the development side.
So after we shipped the Leopard server version of our
collaboration suite, the first thing that happened is a lot
of system administrators, developers
came, started writing into the forums
and asking are there ways that we can customize this?
And we're like sure, you can like customize the
look and feel, and they were happy with that.
But the next question was, how can we make it
do things that are relevant to what we do...
in our organization, are unique
to what we do in our organization?
So happy to say that we've added some new
customization hooks to allow you to do...
actually add new functionality into the wiki.
So an example might be that you could add a new
button to the toolbar, which would allow users
when they're editing pages, to click the button
and add a widget that you guys have developed,
that's very specific to what you do, and have
that embedded directly into the wiki page.
Or another example is you could write a plug in that
scanned the content of wiki pages as they were saved,
maybe noticed certain text phrases,
and did something special with that,
and you'll see an example of that in a minute.
So lastly on the collaboration front, we've completely
optimized the wiki for iPhone, put a lot of work into this
and basically made the iPhone a
first class citizen when it comes
to browsing the content in our web collaboration suite.
So it's got full My Page implementation,
the ability to search across the wikis,
the ability to tag wikis, to add comments onto wikis.
We made sure that anything that gets rendered,
renders really beautifully on the iPhone.
And so this is a great feature for people who happen
to be away from their computer and really want
to get back to that data from the organization.
So I'm going to stop talking for a minute and let John
Anderson come up on stage and show you a demo of some
of these features I've just talked about.
Thanks.
[ Applause ]
>> Thanks Chris.
So as he mentioned, I'm John Anderson.
I'm the manager of the wiki Server team, and today I'm
going to be showing you 3 features in the wiki server.
The first is that it's really easy to create wikis via
the web, and then I'm also going to show you how to search
across multiple wikis simultaneously to
find the information you're looking for.
I'm also going to show you how to preview documents
using Quick Look, without having to download them.
And I'm also going to be going over an example of what
you can do with some of our new theme developer features.
But first...
turn on my demo here...
First I'm going to start at the server homepage.
So we redesigned the server homepage for Snow Leopard,
and we think it serves as a great jumping off point
to all the services you have enabled on your server.
But for right now, I'm going to go
ahead and click on the wiki link.
So here we can see I've set up a wiki server for Moeller
University, and there's two schools that have wikis
on here - the School of Biology,
and the School of Computer Science.
I'm going to go ahead and add a new
wiki for the School of Medicine.
You can see how easy this is.
So I click on "create a new wiki," and
I'll make this the School of Medicine.
And here you can see the next step is
it's choosing a theme for your wiki.
We had a lot of great themes in Leopard,
and we've added even more for Snow Leopard.
I'm going to be boring and just pick
the Apple theme, and click "next."
And here, now this is really cool, you can
actually go in and if it's a private wiki,
instead of assigning a single group to it, you can
assign any combination of users and groups to this
with any different reading and writing privileges.
And I'm not going to be showing it to
you today, but you can actually set
up multiple admins as well, which is really nice.
For the sake of this...
[ Applause ]
... for the sake of this demo I'm going to make the wiki
public, and just require users to log in to read it.
And when I click "create" that's it, I've got a wiki.
So really, really simple.
I can click the "go to wiki" link and there's my new wiki.
So the thing that you'll probably find is
that when it's this easy to create wikis,
you're going to start having a lot of wikis propagate
in your wiki server, and everybody's going to want one.
And so we created a cross wiki search
mechanism now that makes it really easy
to find content across all the wikis on your server.
And I'm going to demonstrate this here by
searching inside this wiki for the word "class".
It's a school, so I should be able to find that.
But since I'm only searching in this wiki, and it's a
brand new one I just created, I'm not seeing any results.
However if I click the "search all wikis and blog
links", you can see search results across multiple wikis.
And in this search page I can actually specify sort
order, I can filter by type, I can filter by tag.
Anybody who's familiar with Leopard we could do all this
stuff here, but one thing that we added here is the concept
of smart filters, and I'll show you how that works.
I can click "save as a smart filter"
and I'll just call this classes.
Click "save" and now I have a link that I can
click on at any point to replay this search,
and any parameters I've entered into it, with one click.
So really, really cool.
The other thing that I can do is I can star pages.
This means that I can search for starred pages later.
When you do search results you
can see which pages are starred,
so it's a easy way to remember
which pages you're interested in.
So that's cross script search, but what if you want
to just keep track of updates to the wiki server?
That's why we created the updates page,
and if I click the "updates" link...
so here you can see all of the changes that have happened on
this server since I last read it, since I last looked at it.
And this provides you an easy way
to triage through your documents.
So I can go through page by page, I think I have about three
pages here, and click "mark these as read" and you can see
that the pages disappear, and this
page is actually live updating.
So I don't actually have to refresh the page for
changes to show up, and I have somebody offstage
that just made a few changes, and you
can see that they disappeared onscreen.
So that's pretty cool.
[ Applause ]
So that's cross wiki searching, and the updates
page, but the next thing I want to show you...
we worked really hard on this and
it's really impressive, is Quick Look.
And so to demonstrate that I'm going to click
on this recently changed science project page,
and you can see one of our great new Snow Leopard themes.
But this page actually has a numbers
document attached to it.
Now this demo machine probably doesn't
have numbers on it, and so I think that...
or it may be a thing where it's a huge document,
a gigantic keynote presentation for example,
and you don't want to have to download it to look at it.
And that's where Quick Look comes in.
And so if I click on this icon here,
I can see Quick Look right here
in my browser window, and I can look at the document.
[ Applause ]
If I want to see it in more detail, I can
even click on it and zoom in and pan around.
So yeah, we worked really hard on this and
I think it's a really impressive feature.
I think you're really going to
like it, and that's Quick Look.
[ Applause ]
So lastly I want to talk a little bit about themes.
Now in Leopard, developers could use themes
to customize the look and feel of their site,
and they could add JavaScript to
add their own functionality.
One of the things we did for Snow
Leopard was add developer hooks
that you can use to watch for content changes on pages.
This means that in your themes you can more
easily develop widgets that insert into your page,
you can pull data from your own web services, or you can
even write data detectors like the one we're going to use
as an example here, that will search
through content and automatically enrich it.
So what I'm going to do to demonstrate
this, we've actually built a custom theme
which adds course info popups to
content whenever it's pasted in.
So I'm going to start with some text...
nobody wants to sit here and watch me type.
So I'll just copy out of Text Edit, and I'm going to do
a cross wiki search for the undergraduate courses page.
And here you can see I'd already started the
page, and I can see it in the Quick Search.
So this particular school has my custom theme already
selected, so I'm going to click on the "edit" button.
Now if anybody who's not familiar with the wiki,
we have a really world class editing environment,
it's all WYSIWYG and it's very non intimidating to users.
I'm going to go ahead and paste in my text, so there it is.
Now before I hit "save" I'm going to explain a
little bit about what this example theme does.
It registers for notifications when the content
is changing, and when that happens it's going
to look for match strings for course numbers.
It's getting those out of a database in a web service.
So if I click save...
you can see it's automatically linked up, these
two course numbers it found in the content,
and if I click on it you can see
information about the course.
We made this in a couple of days' time for the
sake of the demo, and I'm really looking forward
to seeing what you guys can do with these new theme hooks.
And so...
[ Applause ]
So that in a nutshell is the wiki server.
You've seen how you can create wikis in just a few
clicks, you could search across all the wikis at one time,
you can Quick Look documents rather than having
to download them and open them in an application,
and our theme tools are actually
much more powerful than ever before.
So and with that, I'm going to bring Chris back up on stage.
Thanks.
[ Applause ]
>> Thanks John.
So there are web collaboration tools, we've got some great
new features that I think anybody who deploys this will find
that their users are going to love, because it's
really easy to use, really powerful, and it's really,
really advancing the state of user authored content.
So one last thing before I move into
another service, is standards and APIs.
So I just want to make the point that we have hundreds
of standards that are supported in Mac OS X server,
everything from the mail server to even the wiki,
which supports XML, RPCs, and things like that.
So I just want to encourage everybody that
when it comes time to write applications,
to think about using standards whenever possible.
A lot of them are old, a couple of them are new.
CalDAV and CardDAV, I think that's a really
important space to be paying attention to.
It's not all about scheduling meetings or about managing
personal contacts, but when you take contacts and events
and put them together, there are a lot of unique things
you can do, and if you use standards it's going to work
with our stuff, and that's an important thing for us.
OK, so moving on to one last new service on the Mac
OS X server, which we've called Mobile Access Server.
So Mobile Access Server, as its name implies, provides a way
to let you give mobile access to
data or services on your intranet.
So we all know that VPN does that,
but this is a little bit different.
We are not...
it's not intended to provide access
to your network necessarily;
it's intended to provide access
to specific types of content.
So in our case, your calendar server, your mail
server, your contact server, or a specific website.
Now like VPN it's very secure, it's got strong encryption,
it's got support for throttling back failed authentications,
it's got full access control and support, control
lists support, and it's very, very secure.
But unlike VPN, it doesn't require any special software
on the client, and that's the unique thing about this.
It really makes it easy to give access
to certain things on your intranet.
And because it doesn't' require any special client software,
it also means it works on any platform
whether that's a mobile device,
Mac OS X server, or any other platform for that matter.
So X Mobile Access Server, we think it's going to be great
for small businesses that don't really want to have to deal
with VPN and getting clients configured
properly to work with VPN.
So that's what I've got for communications
and collaboration, and I'm going to ask Kazu
to come back onstage and he's got some very exciting things
to talk to you about related to the podcasting world.
[ Applause ]
>> OK, Podcast Producer.
So how many of you know what Podcast Producer is?
Good. How many of you are using it
or planning on deploying it soon?
Good. And hopefully after this
presentation there will be more.
So then those of you who are not familiar with Podcast
Producer, here's a quick one minute overview of what it is.
It's a complete end-to-end solution that let's you easily
and automatically create podcasts and
also deliver them to the end users.
It's a collection of services that's tightly integrated.
On the client side we have this application called
Podcast Capture, which lets end user capture audio
and video information by enabling the user
to start and stop remote or local cameras,
it could even record your local computer screen, or take
an existing file that was created by other applications.
And what the Podcast Capture application does is
automatically send that information to the server,
or the workflow engine, which in turn does a
processing like appending watermarks, transitions,
adding introduction movie, encoding into different file
formats, maybe one for iPhone and Apple TV and so on.
And this workflow engine could be just a single machine,
we all know that the single machine can do a
lot of stuff, or it could be a set of servers.
And Podcast Producer has a built in clustering
capability, so that it uses Xgrid
to automatically distribute the computation
to all the available resources.
And when that podcast is created, we also
have a facility to automatically publish
and deliver that content to the end users.
So it's a complete a end-to-end solution that
lets you capture, process, and deliver.
And this is what it looks like
on the client side, very simple.
So what's under the hood is very powerful and sophisticated,
but to the end user all it takes is just a few clicks,
and you can produce a really nice looking podcast.
And technology was adopted very
well, received very well by our customers.
It's been used in a variety of ways in the market.
For example there are dailies using it to produce or
automate the content processing for their publications.
And there are also companies making employee
training videos using Podcast Producer.
But it's been especially received well by
higher education, since it's a natural fit
for capturing lectures and producing podcasts.
So what I'm going to do now is invite a guest speaker who
can tell us their experience deploying Podcast Producer.
Please welcome Dr. Elise Eisenberg from
New York University College of Dentistry.
[ Applause ]
>> Good afternoon.
New York University College of Dentistry is the third
oldest and the largest dental school in the country.
We graduate more than 8 percent of
all dentists in the United States,
and we've a very global, significant outreach.
The Office of Informatics provides multimedia and
technical support to all of our faculty and our students.
We do web and programming development.
We're responsible for all classroom and clinical AV
support, and we run the podcasting and iTunes initiatives.
Beginning in 2008 we were looking at lecture recording
and we wanted to address a variety of different issues.
We wanted to find a location to be able to archive all of
our recordings, we wanted to have faculty have access to all
of the recordings, not just the ones for their class.
We wanted the ability for students who were going
to outreach and to rotations outside of the school,
to be able to hear all of the recordings,
not miss anything when they weren't there.
We wanted to have a more interactive
learning experience for our students.
We were looking for the best solution at the lowest
cost, and that unquestionably Podcast Producer.
We deployed Podcast Producer in September of 2008.
This is our network set up.
We have 10 headless Mac Minis installed
in our lecture rooms and seminar rooms.
They connect to a MacPro Server.
We're a small IT department, we didn't have
access to a data room or a data center,
and we were going to be doing this ourselves,
and MacPro Server was the best solution for us.
The recordings are processed on the server, they're sent
out to iTunes U, and the students access the recordings
by using a learning manifest system
many of you know as Sakai.
At NYU it's called Alex.
When we first deployed this in August
of 2008, we started to deploy it into...
set it up, we discovered a couple of issues.
One was we went to make sure the Mac Minis were secure.
We had some initial camera binding
issues, and we also had to figure
out exactly how we were going to
start and stop the recordings.
We looked at putting a keyboard next to the Mac
Minis, we looked at iPod Touch and VNC connection
into the Mac Minis, and we also explored Web interfaces.
What we decided to do was create
a student podcasting service.
The students are the ones that
most care about the recordings,
it's in their best interests, they
are there in the classroom.
It made the most sense to have
them start and stop the recordings,
and we created a web interface to help them do it.
This is the web interface, it sits on the Mac Pro Server.
It's just a website on the Mac Pro Server, and it
contains all the classrooms where recordings can be done.
Student in the podcast service clicks on one of the rooms,
when they click on one of the rooms they get another
website, but this one is on the Mac Mini in that room.
They select the course that they're
going to be recording for...
they fill in the title of the lecture, any description
that they might want, and they start the recording.
And when the lecture is done, they stop the recording.
They also have the ability to cancel
the recording if there's a problem.
This is the workflow.
For faculty it's transparent, they connect
to the AV rack and begin the lecture.
For the students they start the recording, when they
start the recording the Mac Mini is capturing the audio
from the AV rack.
We also have a device from a company called
Epiphan that's able to capture the video portion,
or the material that's going through the LCD projector.
It can be presentations, it can be
movies, but they can capture all of that.
The Mac Mini captures both the audio as well as
the video, sends it over to the Mac Pro Server,
and it's processed and sent out to iTunes U.
So again, in September 2008 we fully
deployed Podcast Producer for audio,
and in March 2009 we added the video component.
One of the most important things to keep in mind
is that it didn't change the workflow in terms
of the time it took to send something to iTunes U.
The audio files are sent within 30 to 60 minutes after
recordings are complete, and the video takes about an hour
to two, it can vary based on the time of the
lecture, but it's generally in that time frame.
At this point we have 4,000 files uploaded, and
more than 160,000 files that have been downloaded.
So lessons learned: our local Apple educational team
helped us with a two day Podcast Producer seminar
that helped tremendously in understanding
how to use Podcast Producer.
We did it ourselves and one of the nice things about Podcast
Producer is its extensibility, and its configurability.
It allowed us to set up the system
just the way we needed it to be.
We love Apple Remote Desktop.
Many of you use it, it's a wonderful tool, it really
helps us in our environment, we just use it all the time.
For us, having a great relationship
between IT and AV was really important.
It helps in terms of being able to make sure
that anything going on in the classroom,
any issues can be taken care of,
and that was really important to us.
In discussions I've had with other
schools, it's important as well to them.
The other piece was buy in from faculty and administration.
Very important to make sure that there is
complete buy in, that training that we did
with faculty, with students really helped as well.
I'd like to show you a little snippet
of one of our recordings,
and when you see it there's a couple
of things: 1 is the transition.
The Podcast Producer takes care of the transition
from the introduction to the actual recording itself.
In front of all of our recordings we have
a copyright notice which you'll hear.
The other thing to look at is the
faculty who's doing the presentation,
is actually using the mouse pointer
and is annotating the slide.
It's very cool.
[ Silence ]
>> This area...
this area, those are your taste buds.
And again, look at the high concentration
of cells in the lamina propria.
And if you look at the bottom, here's a duct, which
is attached somewhere along the line to that gland.
>> Thank you.
>> OK, now let's talk about what's
new in Snow Leopard Server.
Podcast Producer 2 has a lot of new features,
but since we only have limited time today,
we're going to talk about three of them.
However this year we have four sessions dedicated to
Podcast Producer, so if you're interested you have plenty
of opportunity to learn all about it throughout the week.
Feature number 1 is the Dual Source Video.
Podcast Producer 2 now can record
two video sources simultaneously,
which is ideal for lectures and presentations like this one.
But typically the one of the sources is
a camera that's recording the presenter,
and another one is recording the computer
screen, the presentation software content.
And what Podcast Producer 2 does is take those two
sources, and create picture in picture podcast for you.
And here is a screenshot, looks pretty nice.
We also...
ship a few different Apple design
layouts with different options,
so you can pick and choose the look and feel you like.
Lastly it has this automatic transition feature
that you're going to see the demo in a few minutes.
So that's feature number 1.
Feature number 2 is Podcast Composer, which is our new
visual workflow editor that lets you create your own workflows.
With this you have control over pretty
much every aspect of creating podcasts.
And of course again, adds your own custom
artwork such as company logos for watermarking,
or copyright notice for introduction on videos.
And all you have to do is simply drag just
those two files into application's window,
Podcast Composer takes care of the rest for you.
And it also uploads the file directly to
the server, or have an option to do so,
so the newly created workflow is
available immediately to the end users.
And what I want to do now is to
invite Kjell Bronder to the stage.
He's one of the engineers from Podcast Producer team,
so he can give us a demo of those two new features.
>> So I'm really excited to show you one of
my favorite features of Podcast Producer 2.
And what I'm going to show you is the dual source.
I'm going to show you how easy we've made
it to create real good looking picture
in picture podcasts, and how easy it is.
So what I'm going to do here is I'm going to open
a keynote presentation that I've prepped here,
and I'm just going to open Podcast Capture here.
And what I'm going to do is I'm going to
select the dual source capture here..
and we're going to start recording.
So start the recording, and start Keynote.
So welcome to this year's episode
of The Essence of the Monument.
Today we're going to be talking about one of the most
famous cathedrals in the world, Notre Dame de Paris.
It took over 200 years to build this cathedral.
With its flying buttresses, Gargoyles, rose
windows, it's one of the finest examples
of French Gothic architecture in the world.
I hope you enjoyed this podcast,
and I'll see you all next time.
[ Applause ]
So I've paused the podcast using the, pausing
the recording, sorry, using a hot key.
So now I'm just going to quit out of Keynote,
and all I have to do now is publish my recording.
This is a little information I've entered here, I'm
just going to choose the podcast I want to go to.
This is the Essence of the Monument...
going to call this Notre Dame de Paris...
give it a little description, then I copy here...
and we're going to submit.
So now Podcast Capture is uploading the content, both
video sources, to the Podcast Producer server that's right
under here, and the Podcast Producer server is
now going to process the content and publish it.
So you might be wondering, how does this
server know what to do with this content?
Well that's where the Podcast Producer
workflow comes into play.
Podcast Producer workflow is really the podcasting recipe.
It tells the server what to do with
the content, and as Kazu mentioned,
we have great new application in
Snow Leopard called Podcast Composer.
So that's what I'm going to show you now.
I have a copy here of the workflow that we just submitted
to, and I'm going to open this with Podcast Composer.
And as you can see, we've broken the
workflow down into seven different stages.
And I'm just going to walk you through them now.
The first is just some general information about this
workflow, so you can see we specified the workflow name
for example, and this is the workflow name that was
provided to me, that I chose in Podcast Capture.
The second stage is the import stage, this is the funnel.
This is where you tell Podcast Producer what
type of content this workflow is going to accept.
We have single source, which is like in Leopard where
you could have a screen recording or a video recording;
can do dual source, which is what we just
did to do a picture in picture podcast.
And finally this other cool feature called montage,
which allows you to submit a full array of documents
that will then render into a slideshow
leveraging Quick Look technology.
Then once you've specified that,
we can move to the editing stage.
This is where all the branding occurs.
You can set your intro video, you can set your watermark,
you can choose the way you want to do your titling,
you can set your transitions, and really there's a lot
of things you can do here and we're really going to go
into detail, on this stage in particular, on our
Wednesday session in "Podcast Composer In Depth."
So I'd encourage you to come to that one.
Once you define the kind of editing you
want to do, you have to decide what kind
of versions you want to encode your content to.
So you can see in this workflow we're
exporting to a iPod and iPhone version,
and Apple TV version, and an audio only version.
But I might want to go to some other versions, and you can
see here that Podcast Composer has automatically detected
that I've Compressor installed on this machine,
and I can now leverage the compressor encoding
settings straight in my Podcast Producer workflow.
[ Pop ]
We'll get to the iChat.
So once you've created all your different
versions, you can see that you need to publish it.
So we also have this awesome new feature called
Podcast Library, which makes it really easy
to publish all your content, and it's also a central
repository for all of your content and archives.
You can also see that we have all the other publishing
destinations that I'm sure you all have come to know
and love, like the Apple wiki, and we even
have this new feature that allows you to submit
to another workflow, and thus chain workflows together.
And, as you just heard with a nice little
sound, we have the notification step.
And here this workflow sends out an
iChat to notify the submitting user
when their content has been successfully processed.
We can also send out emails, but we
can also notify particular services.
For example, we can notify the iTunes store Podcast
Directory that there's new content in our feed,
and that it needs to update its directory.
Finally the last stage here is just a general summary,
and gives you a quick overview what your
Podcast Producer workflow is going to do.
So you can see here we're doing a dual source
import, we're encoding to three different formats,
we're publishing the contents to library,
and we're sending out an iChat notification.
Podcast Composer then let's me either save it locally,
so I can come back and work on my work for later,
or deploy it straight to the server,
straight from the application.
So let's hide Podcast Composer for the moment,
and go take a look at this iChat notification.
So you can see here in my iChat
notification I have some links already...
to the content.
So I'm just going to follow this link here
to iTunes, and refresh my podcast here.
You can see it's downloaded my content,
and I'm going to play this back.
[ Music ]
While this is playing back, I'm just going
to show you everything that we've been doing.
So that's the intro video.
We've got some dynamic titling that's rendered using
Quartz Composer, using the information that I entered.
And here you can see we have the slides, and
automatically the talking head is going to appear.
So what's happening here?
Well we're doing image analysis, and we're detecting
when the slides been static for a certain amount of time,
and once the client's had enough time to read the slides,
we can then push them back and bring in the talking head.
What's going to happen in a few seconds, right here?
And then once this slide changes
again, we can then bring them
into the main screen so you can concentrate on the slides.
[ Applause ]
So that's Podcast Composer, and also how easy
it is to make really great looking picture
in picture podcasts with Podcast Producer 2.
Thank you.
[ Applause ]
>> Thanks, Kjell.
He's our demo god.
Alright, feature number 3 is Podcast Library that Kjell
just mentioned, and it's our repository and delivery engine.
And using Podcast Library you can actually host
your own iTunes new content at your own site,
and we work real closely with iTunes engineers so that
setting it up and managing iTunes U is really easy.
So people like that.
The Podcast Producer also archives everything in the
Library by default, so the raw media file that was captured
by end user and sent to the server, as well as the
resulting podcast, all different flavors of it,
all of it automatically gets archived
for long-term storage and organization.
And of course it has a built in ATOM RSS feed engine
as well for the publishing and delivery of the content.
So those are 3 features in Podcast Producer 2, but we have
a lot of other new features including web based capture GUI,
fail over support, and montage that Kjell just mentioned.
So if you're interested, we have a session dedicated to
talking about every single one of these in detail tomorrow,
called "What's New for Podcast Producer 2?"
So hopefully you're going to be able to attend that.
Next, let's take a quick look at
architecture of Podcast Producer.
As you can see here, it's very open and modular,
which means any developer can expand or customize
or integrate Podcast Producer with their own
software or networking infrastructure,
much like how New York University
did with their own web GUI.
It's very flexible.
And the last thing I want to talk about
is technologies on the Podcast Producer.
As you saw in the last 10 to 15 minutes, it's a
very visually appealing and attractive product,
and we achieved that by taking advantage
of rich media features that built
into Snow Leopard, and I want to highlight a few of them.
The first one is QuickTime.
We use QuickTime 10's new capture API for
recording from camera, or capturing computer screen.
And on the processing side, we also use
QuickTime for encoding into different formats.
Next Quartz Composer.
So with the fancy transitions that you
saw, or the flying text in the title,
watermarking, was all done by Quartz Composer.
And the third are the client side
applications - the Composer and Capture -
use Core Animation to enhance this experience, so the sliding
window content that you saw was all done using Core Animation.
And there are many other technologies that
we depend on, some of them are media related,
such as Xgrid for scalability, and iChat
Messaging Framework for notification.
And the key point here is that Snow Leopard is feature rich
OS release, and all this technology's available not just
to Apple engineers like us, but
to any developers such as yourselves.
So if you're interested, we have a session on Friday
to talk about how Podcast Producer takes advantage
of all different features built into Mac OS X.
Hope you're going to be able to make that.
And that's all I have today, so now I'd like
to give the stage back to Greg for wrap up.
Thank you.
>> Alright, thank you Kazu.
So that's Snow Leopard server.
We have a fully 64-bit server with up to 2
times the performance of its predecessor.
We have some great new features in the
communication suite in the Apple Wiki server,
and as you saw, great new features in Podcast Producer.
Snow Leopard server is going to be available,
along with the desktop in September.
And it's available at a great new price
of $499 for an unlimited client license.
[ Applause ]
No client access fees.
And so that's it.
We have sessions throughout the week.
As Kazu mentioned there's a great session going in
depth on what's new in Podcast Producer tomorrow.
We also have 2 full sessions on calendaring and
contacts for Mac, iPhone, and Mac OS X server;
and labs in the information technologies
lab throughout the week.
So I hope to see you there!
Thank you very much.